so a woman is found dead on her on her
kitchen on our kitchen floor
so the police has been called cuz
there's been a disturbance and they come
across the scene a violent stabbing pull
the blood and woman dead in the kitchen
so of course the police do what they do
they investigate the crime and they walk
around and they find that there's a
video recording which is actually
recording so they stopped it they were
lined it in they press play and it turns
out that somebody had come to the house
and actually put on this recorder the
person walked in front of the recorder
but never actually I could never
actually see a face and then for some
reason they put on Michael Bolton music
which which is a justifiable reason for
murder and later on you hear somebody
else come to the house and then wha
Michael Bolton is singing you hear a
fight in a neighboring room between this
man and this woman ah
and eventually you hear these dishes
crash and then you hear a blood-curdling
scream like you know like slight bill
blood growing scream and then you hear
more screaming and then you hear the
pitter-patter of little fetus as
presumably the man leaves and then over
the next several songs you hear this
woman die so I I first heard this
recording at the FBI forensics lab audio
forensics group in Quantico Virginia it
turns out the FBI has lots of recordings
of people and they do lots of editing of
those repetitive analysis those
recordings to figure out who said Watson
and what's going on mainly this is done
actually not to investigate an ongoing
crime it's usually investigate a crime
that's already occurred mainly for Court
you know John Gotti Liat edit the
recording so they clean up the
recordings to try and say that John
Gotti in fact said the drums are coming
in here at midnight
various other things um so we have this
recording that we the FBI played for us
I was with the Khaliq um Siemens we
asked for brown bags and
hyperventilating when we listen to this
and of course the FBI guys are like
let's go for lunch so they uh they hear
lots of nasty things um so anyway we
were brought it because we had developed
a new technique for source separation
that is that it can remove individual
sources remove the music from the speech
and maybe tell the speaker's from each
other which in this case would be easy
because it was a man and a woman a
little while after we met with the FBI
and got our hands on the recording the
murder victim got the last word for so
from her grave she was able to identify
her killer and I'll describe the
technique that we used to do that in
this top and some of the
things that were working on now so the
algorithm mainly talk about is called
duets um but the main idea is that you
have an individual with maybe multiple
people speaking at a cocktail party
scenario perhaps and you want to be able
to focus in on just one individual so if
you had volume knobs on everybody else
and you could turn them down now we can
do this by a large and cocktail parties
that might be difficult but we can
listen in general just to one person in
the presence of multiple speakers and we
can kind of focus on different people
and we can do that with two ears now we
all know from primary or secondary level
education that in fact when you solve
equations if there are two unknowns you
need two equations three and then three
equations four equations four unknowns
so what our ears are doing is
technically impossible because there are
oh there are only two equations one for
this year one for that year and there's
lots of unknowns and yet we can somehow
solve the system of equations so what
we've learned in mathematics is false to
some extent and there's actually a
revolution in carrying signal processing
right now the sparse signal processing
revolution where there are people that
are far smarter than I am
David Donoho rich bar nuke at Rice and
others who are actually solving systems
of equations that we thought we couldn't
solve before and I'm going to I'm going
to I'm going to present a solution here
which is completely about medical
trivial and cheating but it works really
well because we're going to cheat and
solve the system of equations with too
many unknowns we're gonna have to make
some assumptions so the assumptions that
we make are that the sources don't
overlap musically so what I mean by that
is that my voice I can maybe write a
musical score for my voice if somebody
else we're speaking simultaneously
there'd be a musical score for their
voice we also make an assumption that
the mics are close together now the
reason we need the mics to be close
together is I want the speech as it hits
this microphone the speech learner hits
this microphone that's gonna be
obviously a short delay copy but I want
it to be an exactly delayed copy
obviously if my microphones here and the
other one is 10 kilometers away assuming
I was speaking extremely loudly it
wouldn't be a delayed copy if I'm a
short time frame because my speech right
now and my speech five minutes from now
are not delayed versions of each other
I'm gonna be saying something completely
different five minutes from now I hope
so but on a very short time scale pretty
much if I just delayed you know on
matter of milliseconds there are sound
for example you wouldn't hear any
difference with a short delay in my
speech so that's why the mics are close
together we also assume that there are
no echoes and of course unfortunately we
know that all these assumptions are
false and despite the fact they're all
false the algorithm still works persons
makes it extremely hard to write a
mathematical paper when you write all
these equations with equal signs and the
first thing after every single equation
you say is we assume this to be
approximately true now trying to imagine
my nine-year-old son saying oh dad but 2
equals 3 approximately you know so
that's with all of our papers always say
these things it's extremely difficult to
be treated seriously so now I'm going to
talk about the musical representation of
speech what we do is we take the one
person's speech and we do time frequency
analysis but this is just to get the
idea of how the algorithm works so this
is one person in Dublin Star City for
the big girls are so pretty
which I happen to agree with by the way
marry to a girl but so this is one song
and a second song here might be
something like somebody else or
something different speech and they have
different notes okay the duet assumption
when I said they don't overlap musically
is if I overlay these two things on top
of each others which I've done and I
just look at the notes here you see that
most of the notes in fact don't overlap
but if you were to listen to this of
course you wouldn't be able to
understand anything it's really weird to
have audio and there's actually show a
visual visualization of audio when the
audio it just you better myself
but now what I thought I'd do is give
some demonstrations of this now most
people in source separation um that dude
if you ever hear have heard a source
separation demo don't believe in the
less they do a live demo so don't
believe me until I get to the life that
they'll give a live demo in a moment but
just in case the live demo doesn't work
I wanted to give some canned demos
okay so clearly you can hear there's
more than one person speaking there so
how does the algorithm work well I
showed you before that if that's the
notes are in fact separate so what we do
in that musical representation that we
do is I have my two microphones here and
I have the number of speakers speaking
so my musical score comes in and my
notes are the red notes for example and
it hits this microphone of this
microphone what's the difference between
the notes on this microphone on this one
well under the louder here because of
closer and I'm going to be earlier here
because I'm closer and somebody over
here is going to be louder here because
they're closer to this one and earlier
and if places in the center there he's
going to be equal obtuse on both
microphones that's the whole algorithm
okay that's the whole technique so what
we do is we label the notes based on
their earliness the relative earliness
on the microphones and the relative
loudness and it turns out that of course
that these these are relative only
misses and earliness is and loud misses
should cluster around certain points
those points correspond to the spatial
signature in the room now we've made
lots of simplifying assumptions but what
we're going to show here now is we're
going to go through this this may be two
mixtures taking little short windows
constructing the musical scores and then
clustering the notes in relative delay
space on the bottom and relative
attenuation space along the top here so
as you go through you see a number of
different clearly clearly there's a
bunch of different areas here and
they're active as it goes through
although it's hard to see there'll be a
summary histogram at the end so at the
end oh my gosh
how many people are speaking in it make
sure there are five because there's five
clusters each cluster corresponds to
their spatial signature where they are
in the room if I take all the notes that
gave me the same delay and attenuation
that fell into that peak those notes and
their label those notes read and I just
look at the red music and go back into
the time domain I'll just have the red
person's speech so I'm gonna pick the
Peaks here so there's the first one
second one third one before it closed
really important that I get these
exactly right of course and now I'm D
mixing and this is a faster than real
time D mixing so if you actually have
real time versions of this event as well
and now play the individual speakers
single from the extra stage energy
resources
nan supplies for separation problem so
the mixing is d mixing isn't perfect
I've in fact bled some of the original
mixtures back in to kind of smooth then
you see those musical tones now we can
clean that up with post-processing and
lots of people have come up with
snazzy add-ons or even better algorithms
than this that do that separates the
advanced mathematics is fu division and
subtraction there one question is I've
been using this musical analogy all the
time does it in fact work for music
so this is significantly less can
because this is this is something just
ripped straight from a CD and then if I
create the histogram here you'll see
there's some activity down here there's
definitely up there something there
something maybe there and there there's
actually two things there because I'm
giving this time a couple times I know
that there's two things down there so
I'm gonna separate this out now there's
one there's two I never get these plate
right chain for it so I'm gonna go for
broke here and not put any leakage in so
you'll just hear their absolute raw
separation here so this is like the
ultimate karaoke device right now
normally I played this on really crappy
speakers and it sounds much better on a
bad audio by the way the next one here
this is the one that always shops so
that you can actually get the drums out
so nice though
now there's leakage of course from the
loud instrument but that can be cleaned
up by by point by post filtering which
I've been claiming for several years now
I've never actually attempted so
actually I thought would it be do so
never ever trust anybody unless they do
a live demo it's always difficult
because it's always difficult to get
people to talk at the same time people
end up having a conversation and it's a
really unimpressive to separate people
who are actually having a conversation
when they're already separated in time
domain so okay and go
okay generated history already with the
wrong parameters so that's gonna send
our oh gosh I can see perfectly actually
there's one day I think and one there
and one there it's actually might work
we should be very gratifying uno dos
tres cuatro Cinco seis siete Ocho Nueve
yes the your gloves are good actors
Chris here make oh there it goes above
the falls on mismo tiempo y cloak okay
so that's certainly another language
Mary hope an asylum don't find anybody
up here say hi for your city passes I'm
Molly Hartley it and so our sundown
orange and I can show know very
difficult to speak Irish when there's
Russian and English it
it's officer doesn't necessarily just
work on audio and music and also we also
did tests on frequency off waveforms
this is that are used for communication
and they used for sonar and radar or for
example so this is section ten sources
whereby speech actually has this thing
perhaps through evolution or coevolution
or some types of things maybe our ears
in speech evolved in this way so that we
can actually localize multiple speakers
in fact freaking to have waveforms have
this type of disjointness by design and
that's why they're designed that way so
this type of technique is optimal for
types of things like frequency alpha
waveforms so oh I forgot about the
murder case so it turns out that the
that the woman the recording wasn't
stereo they had two channels but the two
channels after a thorough analysis in 30
seconds turned out to be identical it
was just actually two microphones that
were leading into one wire so it was a
I'm sorry one microphone that had two
R's coming out of it so we couldn't use
our the technique that we had developed
so what happened was that we we asked
them for the original recording of the
Michael Bolton now you can't just play
the Michael Bolton and subtract it out
because that means you have to actually
listen to it as well which is paper but
on and in fact if you do subtract it out
because of the room effects in this
together you end up actually you get
constructive interference and
destructive interference you end up it
just basically kind of adding back there
back into itself and it's very hard to
estimate the channel because channels
changing all the time people are moving
around but what we did do is we created
in a second tool just specifically for
this for this crime
yes that's clearly a mixture of music
and speech right and we can all hear the
speech or maybe not but there is speech
in there yeah you have to trust me and
we're gonna have to pull that speech out
no so what happens here it's very easy
we look at the top one on the bottom
line and we look where there are peaks
on the top one where there aren't peaks
in the bottom line now there's just a
few of them there because the person
doesn't say much and then what we do is
we basically let those Peaks pass
through the unexplained peaks and we
kill the other one so this is a can to
demo but this is going to show you that
in fact the sparseness of speech or the
sparseness of an in general of lots of
human produced sounds is really powerful
because you only have to get a few
points correct in order to reconstruct
the entire speech so what we're gonna do
now is we're gonna look for those few
tiny things there so I have to roughly
synchronize these things and now I'm
gonna run the algorithm and here's the
speech that pulls out of it okay that's
like to the best I've ever seen uh and
yq3
so that's speed what was embedded and
monitor and just you couldn't hear it
I'll play that next year again age marry
okay and see if we can hear
really really really down and whatever
but if you use simple techniques like
this again this is easy this is just
basically multiplying by ones and zeros
it's uh it works alarmingly well I'm
conscious at the time so I just thought
I'd end with my take-home message that
sparsity is done
you